---
layout: post
title: "UTCTF 2021"
date: 2021-03-15
---

<span class="align-center" markdown="1">
    Welcoming our new team members for 2021! This was the first CTF for most of them.<br><br>
    <span class="categories-index">
        **Categories index**<br>
        [Crypto](#crypto) - [Web](#web) - [Networking](#networking) - [Reverse](#reverse) - [Forensics](#forensics)
    </span>
</span>

---

# Crypto

## Small P Problems

> My buddies Whitfield and Martin were trying to share a secret key between themselves, and I was able to eavesdrop on their conversation. I bet I could probably figure out their shared secret with a little math...
> ```
> p = 69691
> g = 1001
> 
> A = 17016
> B = 47643
> ```

The first hint is given by the subjects' names: Whitfield and Martin are indeed Whitfield _Diffie_ and Martin _Hellman_.

We have `p` and `g` (the modulus and the generator of the Diffie-Hellman key exchange protocol) and we also have `A` and `B`, which are
```
A = g^a (mod p)
B = g^b (mod p)
```
where `a` and `b` are two random secret numbers.

The shared secret is calculated as follows:
```
s = g^(a * b) (mod p) = A^b (mod p) = B^a (mod p)
```

Our goal is to find `a` such that `g^a (mod p) = A` (or `b` such that `g^b (mod p) = B`) --- mathematically speaking, we have to solve the discrete logarithm problem.
Once `a` is found, calculating `s` is trivial.

In this context we have a very small `p` (hence the name of the challenge!), so we can find `a` via a bruteforce attack with very little effort.

```py
p = 69691
g = 1001

A = 17016
B = 47643

a = 1
guess = None
while guess != A:
    a += 1
    guess = pow(g, a, p)

s = pow(B, a, p)
print(s)
```

Wrapping the number we have our flag!

🏁 **utflag{53919}**{: .spoiler}

---

## Illegal Prime

> The NSA published the ciphertext from a one-time-pad. Since breaking one-time-pad is so easy, I did it for you.
> To avoid legal trouble I can't tell you the key. On an unrelated note I found this really cool [prime number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illegal_prime).

We are given a text file with the following content:
```
c = 2f7f63b5e27343dcf750bf83fb4893fe3b20a87e81e6fb62c33d30

p = 56594044391339477686029513026021974392498922525513994709310909529135745009448534622250639333011770158535778535848522177601610597930145120019374953248865595853915254057748042248348224821499113613633807994411737092129239655022633988633736058693251230631716531822464530907151
```

We can presume that `c` is the ciphertext, and `p` is the prime number.
The link in the prompt refers to the Wikipedia page about _illegal primes_, prime numbers that are considered illegal in some jurisdictions because they are the numeric representation of some piece of illegal software.

So if we try and interpret the number `p` as a byte array, it is indeed the numeric representation of the (padded) string `k = 5a0b05...` which really looks like our key!

Now we can easily decrypt the ciphertext as follows:
```py
from Crypto.Util.number import long_to_bytes

c = bytes.fromhex('2f7f63b5e27343dcf750bf83fb4893fe3b20a87e81e6fb62c33d30')

p = 56594044391339477686029513026021974392498922525513994709310909529135745009448534622250639333011770158535778535848522177601610597930145120019374953248865595853915254057748042248348224821499113613633807994411737092129239655022633988633736058693251230631716531822464530907151
k = bytes.fromhex(long_to_bytes(p).decode('ascii').strip('\x00\x0f').split(' = ')[1])

plain = ''
for i, encrypted_char in enumerate(c):
    plain += chr(encrypted_char ^ k[i])

print(plain)
```

And here's our flag!

🏁 __`utflag{pr1m3_cr1m3s____!!!}`__{: .spoiler}

---

# Web

# Networking

# Reverse

# Forensics

# Miscellaneous

## Emoji Encryption

> I came up with this rad new encryption. Bet no one can break it
> ```
> ☂️🦃🔥🦁🍎🎸{🐘🥭🧅🤹🧊☀️_💣🐘_🌋🐘🌈☀️🍎🦃🧊🦁🐘}
> ```

We are given a series of emojis, curly brackets and underscores. Those are aranged in a way such that it's pretty easy to recognize a flag disguised as a sequence of emojis. It's also intuitive to recognize that every letter of the flag is encoded with an emoji that rapresents an animal/object which has as first letter of its name as the above-mentioned letter.  
In order to decrypt the flag, the only thing we have to do is to replace every emoji with the first letter of its name (for clarity's sake I've substituted every emoji with it's name and capitalized and bolded the first letter):

> **U**mbrella**T**urkey**F**ire**L**ion**A**pple**G**uitar{**E**lephant**M**ango**O**nio**J**uggler**I**ce**S**un_**B**omb**E**lephant_**V**olcano**E**lephant**R**ainbow**S**un**A**pple**T**urkey**I**ce**L**ion**E**lephant}

🏁 __utflag{emojis_be_versatile}__{:.spoiler}
