---
layout: post
category: writeups
title: "SnakeCTF 2023"
date: 2023-12-10
ctf_categories:
  - web
  - pwn
  - osint
  - network
  - misc
---

<script src="{{ "/assets/vendor/highlightjs/build/languages/http.min.js" | prepend: site.baseurl }}"></script>

# Web

## smartest fridge

> I love my smart fridge so much.<br><br>
> https://smartest-fridge.snakectf.org

🏁 _snakeCTF{}_{:.spoiler}

## springbrut

> The app our new intern made must have some issues, because I saw him checking some weird numbers... Can you figure it out?<br><br>
> https://springbrut.snakectf.org

🏁 _snakeCTF{}_{:.spoiler}

## phpotato

> Dear crypto bro, I know you're sad the dogecoin is doing bad. I made this app so we can share our favorite numbers and crunch them together.<br><br>
> https://phpotato.snakectf.org

🏁 _snakeCTF{}_{:.spoiler}

## kattinger

> Fellow cat lovers, I made an app to share our favorites!<br><br>
> https://kattinger.snakectf.org

🏁 _snakeCTF{I_th0ugh7_it_w4s_4_k1tten}_{:.spoiler}

# Pwn

## military grade authentication

> We just started using this military-grade software to authenticate accesses to our infrastructure.<br><br>
> We don't really understand it, but I'm sure that it's secure! We don't know the password either, after all!<br><br>
> nc pwn.snakectf.org 1337

🏁 _snakeCTF{h1pp17y_h0pp17y_7h47'5_my_pr0p3r7y}_{:.spoiler}

## obligatory bof

> Well, you gotta do what you gotta do!<br><br>
> nc pwn.snakectf.org 1338

🏁 _snakeCTF{}_{:.spoiler}

# OSINT

## flightyflightflight

> Look mum I can fly!<br><br>
> Flag format: snakeCTF{IATAcode_ICAOcode}

🏁 _snakeCTF{}_{:.spoiler}

## snakemas is coming

> Luckily, the most beautiful season of the year is near.<br><br>
> I need to decorate my house with the coolest things ever!<br><br>
> I found this super big mall on the internet who sells the perfect decoration!!!<br><br>
> But I don't have money :(<br><br>
> I need a plan to steal the decoration. Maybe I can hack the webcams to watch the security footages and find the perfect moment to act!<br><br>
> I can try my new hacking attack!<br><br>
> Here are the commands:<br><br>
> <span>1. e4 e5 2. b3 *</span><br><br>
> Flag format: snakeCTF{TheNameOfTheAttack}

🏁 _snakeCTF{SantaClausAttack}_{:.spoiler}

## first hunt

> Hey! We intercepted this strange message, I think we finally found them. Let me know if you find something

🏁 _snakeCTF{}_{:.spoiler}

# Network

## closed web net

> I have this old 2006 home automation gateway, but I lost the password to access it. I have a pcap file of the network traffic between it and a client. Can you help me?<br><br>
> Flag format: snakeCTF{PASSWORD_MODELNAME_FIRMWAREVERSION}<br><br>
> Note: the firmware version must be in the format V.R.B where V, R and B are numbers.

🏁 _snakeCTF{12345_F452_3.1.16}_{:.spoiler}

## peculiar internet noteworthy gizmo 1

> The network was dead quiet. Yet, in the eerie silence, I could almost feel the netadmin's presence, their thoughts and intentions woven into the very fabric of the IPAM.<br><br>
> Note: nmap is allowed INSIDE the instance.

🏁 _snakeCTF_{:.spoiler}

## peculiar internet noteworthy gizmo 2

> The once-elusive netadmin's messages now resonate clearly through the wider network, their intentions revealed for all of us to see.<br><br>
> Note: nmap is allowed INSIDE the instance.

🏁 _snakeCTF{next_time_map_all_internet_with_hilbert_curves}_{:.spoiler}

# Misc

## black rat

> I intercepted something weird, are we under attack? Should we be scared? Is this a prank? Please check and let me know

🏁 _snakeCTF{}_{:.spoiler}

## stressful reader

> I want to read an env variable, but I'm getting stressed out because of that blacklist!!! Would you help me plz? :(<br><br>
> nc misc.snakectf.org 1700

```python
self.get_var((dir(self).__getitem__(all(dir(list)).real)) + (dir(self).__getitem__(( all(dir(list)).real + all(dir(list)).real + all(dir(list)).real ))) + (dir(self).__getitem__(all(dir(list)).real.__gt__( all(dir(list)).real).real)) + (dir(self).__getitem__(( all(dir(list)).real + all(dir(list)).real ))))
```

🏁 _snakeCTF{7h3_574r_d1d_7h3_j0b}_{:.spoiler}
